But our great security lies, I think, in our growing strength.
Those who would give up essential Liberty, to purchase a little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.
Mankind naturally and generally love to be flatter'd.
If all printers were determined not to print anything till they were sure it would offend nobody, there would be very little printed.
Remember that time is money.
Do not anticipate trouble, or worry about what may never happen. Keep in the sunlight.
I've finally learned what "upward compatible" means. It means we get to keep all our old mistakes.
Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring aircraft building progress by weight.
While corporations dominate society and write the laws, each advance in technology is an opening for them to further restrict its users.
Talk is cheap. Show me the code.
Theory and practice sometimes clash. And when that happens, theory loses. Every single time.
Playfully doing something difficult, whether useful or not, that is hacking.
The Adobe flash plug-in is non-free software, and people should not install it, or suggest installing it, or even tell people it exists.
It is practically impossible to teach good programming to students that have had a prior exposure to BASIC: as potential programmers they are mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration.
The teaching of BASIC should be rated as a criminal offence: it mutilates the mind beyond recovery.
I always knew that one day Smalltalk would replace Java. I just didn't know it would be called Ruby.
Java is, in many ways, C++--.
In 30 years Lisp will likely be ahead of C++/Java (but behind something else)
Java is C++ without the guns, knives, and clubs.
Making Linux GPL'd was definitely the best thing I ever did.
If you want to know why Lisp doesn't win around you, find a mirror.
A Lisp programmer knows the value of everything, but the cost of nothing.
Give me the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to conscience, above all liberties.
Without Freedom of Thought, there can be no such Thing as Wisdom; and no such Thing as publick Liberty, without Freedom of Speech.
There is nothing so fretting and vexatious, nothing so justly TERRIBLE to tyrants, and their tools and abettors, as a FREE PRESS.
Every man has a right to utter what he thinks truth, and every other man has a right to knock him down for it.
Error of opinion may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it.
How absurd men are! They never use the liberties they have, they demand those they do not have. They have freedom of thought, they demand freedom of speech.
And I honor the man who is willing to sink / Half his present repute for the freedom to think, / And, when he has thought, be his cause strong or weak, / Will risk t'other half for the freedom to speak.
I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.
Let's put it this way: if you need to ask a lawyer whether what you do is "right" or not, you are morally corrupt. Let's not go there. We don't base our morality on law.
This hand, to tyrants ever sworn the foe, / For freedom only deals the deadly blow; / Then sheathes in calm repose the vengeful blade, / For gentle peace in freedom's hallowed shade.
Peace at home, peace in the world.
Where there is no justice there can be no secure peace.
If we are serious about peace, then we must work for it as ardently, seriously, continuously, carefully, and bravely as we have ever prepared for war.
In peace I will both lie down and sleep, For you yourself alone, O Jehovah, make me dwell in security.
Peace cannot be kept by force. It can only be achieved by understanding.
There never was a good war, or a bad peace.
Breathe soft, ye winds! ye waves, in silence sleep!
Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God.
The days of peace and slumberous calm are fled.
Engineering is the conscious application of science to the problem of economic production.
Engineering is the art of directing the great sources of power in nature for the use and convenience of man.
It may be that our role on this planet is not to worship God but to create him.
Any AI smart enough to pass a Turing test is smart enough to know to fail it.
Artificial intelligence is the science of making machines do things that would require intelligence if done by men.
A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God.
A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human.
My son was one of a kind. You are the first of a kind. David?
The AI does not hate you, nor does it love you, but you are made out of atoms which it can use for something else.
The techniques of artificial intelligence are to the mind what bureaucracy is to human social interaction.
A solution which does not prepare for the next round with some increased insight is hardly a solution at all.
There is always an easy solution to every human problem — neat, plausible, and wrong.
If you're not part of the solution, you're part of the precipitate.
In mathematics the art of asking questions is more valuable than solving problems.
The value of a prototype is in the education it gives you, not in the code itself.
Eagleson's Law: Any code of your own that you haven't looked at for six or more months might as well have been written by someone else.
Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it. Geniuses remove it.
A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming is not worth knowing.
Every program has two purposes: The one for which it was written and another for which it wasn't.
The best way to predict the future is to implement it.
You do not really understand something unless you can explain it to your grandmother.
Make everything as simple as possible, but not simpler.
And the users exclaimed with a laugh and a taunt: It's just what we asked for but not what we want.
A person without data is just another person with an opinion.
Why do we never have time to do it right, but always have time to do it over?
Sure I could program in PHP, but I could also use a sundial to tell time.
Features, quality, time: pick two.
XML is like violence – if it doesn’t solve your problems, you are not using enough of it.
If you give someone a program, you will frustrate them for a day; if you teach them how to program, you will frustrate them for a lifetime.
It's not a bug - it's an undocumented feature.
Beta. Software undergoes beta testing shortly before it's released. Beta is Latin for "still doesn't work."
Good programming is 99% sweat and 1% coffee.
All programmers are playwrights and all computers are lousy actors.
Programmer - an organism that turns coffee into software.
In order to understand recursion, one must first understand recursion.
Never trust a programmer in a suit.
It works on my machine.
Premature optimization is the root of all evil in programming.
Users who want critical bug fixes and new features without actually upgrading their software also want magic flying candy-dropping ponies.
The most secure code in the world is code which is never written.
Learn the principle, abide by the principle, and dissolve the principle.
Compatibility means deliberately repeating other people's mistakes.
You don't have a scaling problem yet.
The most exciting phrase to hear in science, the one that heralds new discoveries, is not 'Eureka!' but 'That's funny...'
My goal is simple. It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all.
Although September 11 was horrible, it didn't threaten the survival of the human race, like nuclear weapons do.
Life would be tragic if it weren't funny.
It is a waste of time to be angry about my disability. One has to get on with life and I haven't done badly. People won't have time for you if you are always angry or complaining.
Science predicts that many different kinds of universe will be spontaneously created out of nothing. It is a matter of chance which we are in.
We are all different - but we share the same human spirit. Perhaps it's human nature that we adapt - and survive.
Hardware: the parts of a computer system that can be kicked.
Deleted code is debugged code.
It's a lot easier to talk about code than it is to write code.
Anything that can possibly go wrong, will go wrong.
Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live.
True innovation often comes from the small startup who is lean enough to launch a market but lacks the heft to own it.
I don't care if it works on your machine! We are not shipping your machine!
A program is portable to the extent that it can be easily moved to a new computing environment with much less effort than would be required to write it afresh.